.TH WEBMUX 1 "2026-03-10" "WebMux" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
webmux \- web\-native terminal multiplexer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B webmux
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B webmux
is a browser\-based terminal multiplexer.
It runs as a Node.js server on a jump box and exposes a React/xterm.js
frontend that presents a scrollable 2D grid of live SSH (or mosh)
terminal sessions.
.PP
Multiple browser clients can connect simultaneously.
Each terminal tile supports shared viewing and click\-to\-focus input
ownership.
Sessions are persistent: they survive browser closes and server restarts
and are reconnected automatically on the next startup.
.SH OPTIONS
.B webmux
reads all configuration from YAML files (see
.B FILES
below).
There are no command\-line flags; runtime behaviour is controlled entirely
through the config files and the environment variables below.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B WEBMUX_ROOT
Path to the directory that contains the compiled frontend
.I web/
subtree and the
.I config/
directory.
Defaults to the directory two levels above the compiled backend entry
point.
.TP
.B HTTP_PORT
Override the HTTP port at runtime.
Takes precedence over
.I app.yaml
.BR http_port .
.TP
.B HTTPS_PORT
Override the HTTPS port at runtime.
Takes precedence over
.I app.yaml
.BR https_port .
.SH CONFIGURATION
All configuration files live under
.I $WEBMUX_ROOT/config/
(typically
.IR ~/.config/webmux/ ).
Files are YAML and are watched for changes at runtime where applicable.
.TP
.B app.yaml
Primary server configuration.
.RS
.TP
.B app.listen_host
Interface to bind (default
.IR 0.0.0.0 ).
.TP
.B app.http_port
HTTP port (default
.IR 8080 ).
.TP
.B app.https_port
HTTPS port used when TLS certificates are present (default
.IR 8443 ).
.TP
.B app.secure_mode
Boolean.
When
.BR true ,
CORS is restricted to same\-origin and JWT authentication is required.
When
.BR false ,
the server runs in
.I Trusted
mode (no auth, permissive CORS) — suitable for isolated networks only.
.TP
.B app.default_term.cols / .rows / .font_size
Default terminal dimensions and font size for new sessions.
Users can adjust these at runtime from the top bar; changes are
persisted back to this file.
.TP
.B app.transport.prefer_mosh
When
.BR true ,
sessions on hosts that have
.B mosh_allowed: true
in
.I hosts.yaml
will use mosh instead of SSH.
.TP
.B app.transport.ssh_fallback
When
.BR true ,
fall back to SSH if mosh is unavailable.
.RE
.TP
.B hosts.yaml
Saved connection profiles.
Each entry has
.BR id ,
.BR hostname ,
.BR port ,
.BR username ,
.BR transport ,
.BR key_id ,
.BR tags ,
and
.BR mosh_allowed .
Hosts appear in the connection dialog for one\-click connect.
.TP
.B auth.yaml
User accounts for secure mode.
Passwords are hashed with Argon2id.
Managed via the
.I + Account
button in the UI.
.TP
.B keys.yaml
SSH key identities.
Each entry maps a
.B key_id
to the path of a private key file.
Keys are selected per\-session in the connection dialog.
.TP
.B layout.yaml
Current tile layout (session\-id to grid row/col mapping).
Written automatically by the server; do not edit by hand.
.TP
.B tls/cert.pem, tls/key.pem
If both files exist, the server enables HTTPS/WSS on
.I https_port
in addition to plain HTTP.
Create a self\-signed certificate with:
.PP
.RS
.EX
openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout tls/key.pem \\
        -out tls/cert.pem -days 365 -nodes
.EE
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $WEBMUX_ROOT/config/app.yaml
Server and terminal defaults.
.TP
.I $WEBMUX_ROOT/config/hosts.yaml
Saved host profiles.
.TP
.I $WEBMUX_ROOT/config/auth.yaml
User accounts (secure mode only).
.TP
.I $WEBMUX_ROOT/config/keys.yaml
SSH key identities.
.TP
.I $WEBMUX_ROOT/config/layout.yaml
Persistent tile layout (auto\-managed).
.TP
.I $WEBMUX_ROOT/config/tls/cert.pem
TLS certificate (enables HTTPS when present alongside key.pem).
.TP
.I $WEBMUX_ROOT/config/tls/key.pem
TLS private key.
.TP
.I $WEBMUX_ROOT/logs/audit.jsonl
Append\-only JSONL audit log: login events, session create/delete/exit.
.SH USAGE
After starting the server, open a browser to
.I http://localhost:8080
(or the configured port).
.SS Adding a session
Click any
.B +
placeholder cell in the workspace grid.
The connection dialog lets you choose a saved host or enter
connection details manually, select SSH/mosh transport, and
provide credentials.
.SS Navigating the workspace
The workspace is a scrollable 2D grid.
.TP
.B Wheel (over empty area)
Scrolls the workspace view.
.TP
.B Shift + Wheel (over any area)
Scrolls the workspace view even when the pointer is over a terminal tile.
.TP
.B Drag scrollbar
The persistent vertical scrollbar on the right of the workspace always
scrolls the workspace view.
.TP
.B Wheel (over terminal, no modifier)
Scrolls that terminal's scrollback buffer (5,000 lines).
.SS Input broadcast
The
.B Type to All
button in the top bar toggles broadcast mode.
When active (highlighted in orange), every keystroke is sent to all
open sessions simultaneously — useful for running the same command on
multiple hosts at once.
.SS Terminal controls (top bar)
.TP
.B A\- / A+
Decrease or increase font size (8\(en32 px).
Changes are persisted to
.IR app.yaml .
.TP
.B C\- / C+
Decrease or increase terminal column count in steps of 10 (40\(en240).
.TP
.B R\- / R+
Decrease or increase terminal row count in steps of 5 (10\(en80).
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGTERM, SIGINT
Graceful shutdown: disconnects all WebSocket clients, persists session
state to YAML, and exits.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Build and start in the foreground:
.PP
.RS
.EX
make
node dist/index.js
.EE
.RE
.PP
Build and start in the background via
.BR make (1):
.PP
.RS
.EX
make start
make status
make stop
.EE
.RE
.PP
Install as a system service (launchd on macOS, systemd on Linux):
.PP
.RS
.EX
make install
.EE
.RE
.PP
Override ports without editing the config file:
.PP
.RS
.EX
HTTP_PORT=9090 HTTPS_PORT=9443 node dist/index.js
.EE
.RE
.SH SECURITY
In
.B secure mode
.RI ( secure_mode:\ true ),
the server requires JWT authentication (Argon2id\-hashed passwords),
restricts CORS to same\-origin, and should be accessed over HTTPS.
.PP
In
.B trusted mode
.RI ( secure_mode:\ false ),
no authentication is required.
Use this only on isolated networks or localhost.
The UI displays a
.I Trusted
badge as a reminder.
.PP
Passwords provided during session creation are held in memory for at most
five minutes and then zeroed; they are never written to disk.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
.B Could not load app.yaml, using defaults
The config file was missing or unreadable at startup.
The server continues with built\-in defaults.
.TP
.B Failed to launch session
The
.BR ssh (1)
or
.BR mosh (1)
binary was not found, or the host was unreachable.
Check that the required binaries are on
.BR PATH .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ssh (1),
.BR mosh (1),
.BR sshpass (1),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR node (1)
.SH AUTHORS
WebMux was written by the WebMux contributors.
